# Algorithm Challenges

Each challenge is rated in terms of its difficulty and suggested applicant experience necessary to tackle the challenge. Each challenge has at least two model answers: a “simple” answer, which might be generated by a weaker candidate and a “advanced” answer which might be provided by a strong candidate with a head for writing efficient algorithms. The answer provided by the applicant may be assessed relative to these model answers, as well as her/his demonstration of:

1. Mastery of the chosen programming language
2. Awareness of the order of complexity of their chosen algorithm
3. Clarity of coding style and basic instructions to run the code


**Challenge 1: Convex Hull**

Description: Write an algorithm to determine the convex hull of a set of N randomly generated points.

Difficulty: Easy

Applicant Experience: Recent grad student

Detailed description: A carpenter takes his hammer and randomly inserts N nails into a perfectly flat piece of wood of area 1m x 1m.
He then takes an elastic rubber band, (just like one of these: https://amzn.to/2DYBbzo) and stretches it large enough to fit around the nails he just inserted into the wood. 
Upon letting go of the elastic band, it relaxes tight around the nails, assuming a shape which minimizes its length. 

Write an algorithm in C++ to calculate the final length of the elastic band. How does the complexity of your algorithm scale with the number of nails, N?


**Challenge 2: Smiley**

Description: Write an algorithm to reads a PGM image from disk, overlay a smiley face and write the image back.

Difficulty: Easy

Applicant Experience: Recent grad student

**Challenge 3: 1D Polynomial Interpolation**

Description: Write a subroutine to do 1D polynomial interpolation of order M.

Difficulty: Medium

Applicant Experience: Good recent grad student with math/numerical background.

**Challenge 4: Root Finding**

Description: Write an algorithm to determine the roots of a polynomial of order M.

Difficulty: Medium-Hard

Applicant Experience: Very good recent grad student with math/numerical experience


**Challenge 5: Triangulation**

Description: Write an algorithm to triangulate a set of N randomly generated points.

Difficulty: Hard

Applicant: Experience: 2+ years related experience / good masters grad student

**Challenge 6: Mathematical Optimisation**

Description: The Rosenbrock "banana" function is given by

```math
f(x,y) = (1 - x)^2 + (y - x^2)^2
```

Write C/C++ code to find the minimum of this function by gradient descent with an adaptive learning rate tuned via RMSProp. Some requirements:

- The code should not use libraries beyond what is necessary to write to `stdout`
- Output should be written to `stdout` in CSV format such that each row of the CSV corresponds to one iteration of gradient descent and the columns correspond to $`x`$ and $`y`$ respectively

Difficulty: Hopefully not hard for the applicant

Applicant Experience: Computer science or math grad with some ML experience
